.\" Copyright (c) 2003 Dave Phillips
.\" Copyright (c) 2009 Guido Scholz
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139,
.\" USA.
.\"
.TH AlsaModularSynth 1 "May 2009"
.SH NAME
ams \- A modular patching software synthesizer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "ams [" OPTIONS "] [" file "]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B AlsaModularSynth
(AMS) is a software synthesizer designed after the great analog modular
synths of the 1960s. It employs virtual control voltages (VC) for each
 module's parameter control, using the the 
.B Moog
synthesizer's 1V/oct logarithmic control scale for its oscillator and
filter functions.

Following the modular synth model
.B AMS
supplies the user with a variety of sound-producing and sound-processing
software modules such as digital oscillators, filters, amplifiers, and
DSP effects. These modules are linked together (patched) to create
complex audio synthesis networks. These network patches can be played in
realtime via MIDI or internal control structures, and they may be saved
and reloaded at will.  
.SH OPTIONS
Runtime options for
.B AMS
are shown here with their default values in brackets.

.TP 10
.B --jack
Force JACK I/O

.TP 10
.BI "--in " <num>
Number of JACK input ports

.TP 10
.BI "--out " <num>
Number of JACK output ports

.TP 10
.BI "--poly " <num>
Polyphony [1]

.TP 10
.BI "--periodsize " <frames>
Period size [1024]

.TP 10
.B --alsa
Force ALSA I/O

.TP 10
.BI "--frag " <num>
Number of fragments [2]

.TP 10
.BI "--rate " <samples/s>
Sample rate [44100]

.TP 10
.BI "--edge " <0...10>
VCO edge [1.0]

.TP 10
.BI "--soundcard " <plug>
Soundcard [plughw:0,0]

.TP 10
.BI "--preset " <file>
Preset file

.TP 10
.BI "--presetpath " <path>
Preset path

.TP 10
.B --nogui                      
Start without GUI

.TP 10
.BI "--name " <name>
ALSASEQ/JACK clientname, windowtitle

.SH FILES
Numerous example and tutorial patches can be found in
.I /usr/share/ams
or
.I /usr/local/share/ams.

Tutorial documentation is available at
.I http://alsamodular.sourceforge.net/alsamodularsynth_doc.html.

.SH BUGS
Please send bug reports or any other feedback to the developer mailing
list <alsamodular-devel@lists.sourceforge.net>

.SH AUTHORS
.B AMS
was written by Dr. Matthias Nagorni, Fons Adriaensen, Karsten Wiese,
Malte Steiner and Guido Scholz.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright and license information for
.B AMS:

.B AlsaModularSynth
by Matthias Nagorni (c) 2002-2003 SuSE AG Nuremberg.
Licensed under the
.B GNU General Public License V2.
